>> Sean Larkin: Why don't we just
hook into something different just so
that we can see how the hook triggers,
right?
So I think why don't we go to
something in the compilation.
So how do you plug in to
something that's not the compiler?
So if you wanna plug into a different
instance you still have to go through
the compiler though.
So compiler.hooks and
then I know just by heart but
we should through the practice of
how you might wanna compilation.
There's a hook there and
it gives us that instance.
And it gives us some other
stuff that's not as valuable or
needed to know right now, compilation.
And so just as we've done
before we'll tap into it.
Was that a sink hook or an esink hook?
Let's see.
It's a sink hook so I don't need
a call back, and I just call tap.
So MyfirstwebpackPlugin, cool.
And then we'll get the compilation,
and then there was an argument called
perams and I'm just gonna keep
it there for safekeeping.
And so, well now, we have the compilation,
right, at our fingertips.
So we can now access it's hooks.
So I think, a valuable hook to know,
that I think that people
have wanted to know
about in the past is how
do I access the graph,
or how do I hook into web pack,
just before it starts to render the code?
So that's a phase we call a seal phase,
so we have a hook for that.
Now, we're not going to
get any state back, but
we already have access to
the compilation in our plugin.
So this is just a way for
us to stop synchronously at this event and
then perform some functionality,
and then allow webpack to continue.
>> Sean Larkin: Beautiful, so
.hooks.seal.tap ("MyFirstWebpackPlugin".
>> Sean Larkin: Then you
get nothing in return.
All right,
let's set a debugger here, right?
This is cool.
And let's see what happens when we
run our debug script, yarn debug.
>> Sean Larkin: And I'll cheat and
just doing the VS code.
We can do it on Chrome too.
If anybody wants to see
me do it in Chrome,
I can do the same thing,
the steps are the same.
So cool.
You can see here that really building up
the graph was like, whoa that was fast.
We just built the entire
graph with that web app.
>> Sean Larkin: Now let's see,
what can we access in this scope?
This.
Now obviously,
you kinda have to have like a reference
to it because we're using aero functions.
So maybe what I'll do is unplug it.
I'll say comst
thisCompilationIWantToInspect
= compilation.
And I'll do it inside of here.
Cool, let's try it again.
We're in debug.
I'll attach.
Fun, fun.
Okay, step through
the initial break point.
Here we go so
now I think I have this compilation.
Where is that?
I think I need to actually type it out.
Wait, where is that?
Debug console there it is.
>> Sean Larkin: That's right.
So this is a little gotcha
that's good to know.
So like if you don't actually use it
with it stops in debug mode, I think
the inspector protocol doesn't actually
provided into the scope that you can read.
So I can do something like
console.log()this.compilation or
like ThisCompilationIWantToInspect.
I had to put it down here, that's right,
it does some fancy scoping stuff.
So I'll try and attach,
let's start it again.
There we go, so
now I should have access to it.
Yes, from the closure.
But isn't that weird?
I always find that weird.
But so cool, I can even see
the modules that were consumed.
Technically you could take and
you could call other methods,
and you could make
modifications to the code.
You could access information.
Like, the information is
a wealth of knowledge.
And so, I always feel bad when I say,
like you're not gonna know when you're
wanting one until you actually need one.
I had a really cool idea the other day and
it was like, this would be great for
a plugin and
now I can't even think about it.
But there's all sorts of
stuff that is in here.
A very common example is that,
let's say if you wanted to,
in a certain environment,
whenever somebody
references a specific path in
the resolver, you could hook into it and
say let's switch this path to something
else and give me that module instead.
So you could essentially fake an entire
resolution instance happening and
that happens during
the NormalModuleFactory.beforeResolve.
So beforeResolve,
you basically pass the request.
And then what happens is that
gets sent to the resolver.
So you can hook into this,
alter this property, and send it back.
And so now, the resolver is going
to go find some other file and
give back what you requested.
Even the moment JS trick,
the ContextReplacementPlugin,
that's exactly what it's doing.
I'll just search
ContextReplacementPlugin momentjs.
So how to optimize momentjs with webpack?
So essentially this
ContextReplacementPlugin.
The reason why is because there's
a dynamic AMD module that
forces everything to be bundled up because
it can be resolvable from a partial path.
And so what you're passing here is a redex
that just says whenever you come across
any of these paths in a before resolve
hook it just says, return no op functions.
And then it returns nothing so it proves
out all the locals you don't actually
need, except for the ones you
actually want to filter through.
Even if we looked at
the ContextReplacementPlugin,
like the source code.
>> Sean Larkin: New ContextExclusionPlug,
I haven't seen that one lately.
If we look at the source code here for
this plug-in,
we can even step through it and
understand what's happening.
So we're going to have a resource.
So resource just means the path
that was originally requested.
Now it's going to have a regex.
And so like if you wanted to
take options into your plugin,
you just pass it through the constructor.
>> Sean Larkin: So what's happening here
is it's going to hook into the compiler,
into the module factory and
to the before resolve hook.
And it's basically going to say, well
apply this RegExp against whatever request
that was, whatever it is, so
moment.js, which is the path.
Well, what it's doing now,
is it's going to filter it out
with that regular expression.
And then we pass back this new map, which
is gonna be only the locals that we want.
And so, that's essentially like if you
wanted say like how to I write a resolver
plugin, or
how do I alter a request with a plugin?
This one and
the normal replacement plug-in
are the two best that you could use, and
we have those out of the box with webpack.
So there's this one, and
then there is, I think it's just
under,
>> Sean Larkin: Let me search for
it, NormalModuleReplacementPlugin.
So this is the same concept where you have
a regular expression against the resource
and then you apply [LAUGH]
basically a new resource to it.
So it takes the request and then we tap
into afterResolve and pass it a new value.
So that's kinda like the short of it,
I would say.
And there's just literally a myriad
of different ways that you can
use the plugin hooks.
And we even have our documentation
gives some description on like
when you wanna access these things,
you can plugin to these hooks.
And so I think it's API plugins.
Yeah, and
we kinda describe what's Tapable, and
what kinds of plugin types do we have?
Like is it an async plugin,
or a sync plugin?
And you can even,
how to create custom hooks.
And you can even go and see the compiler
hooks on different instances, right?
So the watching compiler.
And it kind of talks about, hook into
the compiler before it reads records, or
before it creates a module, or
before it's going to emit some files.
Like, you could totally just wipe
files if you wanted to from the build.
I've seen reasons to do that.
And so we're adding more hooks as we go.
There's also the compilation hooks like
trigger before module build occurs or
like when you rebuild you can hook into
this to see what module was being rebuilt.
Or things like if something failed and
you want to handle that failure
gracefully you could do so.
Also really cool ones.
The ironic thing is that we write
these plugins already out-of-the-box,
that do as much optimizations as possible.
But there are some times where people
are like, I wanna mess with this.
And so,
the optimize hooks are really cool.
>> Sean Larkin: And
there's also ones like creation of chunks
before the assets are generated,
additional assets.
Here's a great one.
I love it when they show use cases.
So here I'll make this really large.
>> Sean Larkin: So if you wanted to go and
download an image that you needed for
your build and serve it up.
And let's say you could even compress
it if you wanted to, like from a CDN.
You could literally write a hook to do
this and store it in compilation.assets.
The cool thing about
this is it's different
from event emitter because you get state
and you can alter the state, right.
Now some would say yeah, but what if you
don't know what's altering the state.
For the most part, we have enough
hooks and we set our writable and
readable properties,
the right way to ensure you're not
messing with something that would break or
whatever.
But yeah, compilation.assets is
a great example where you could
essentially tap into it,
pull down something from whatever,.
And then you could go ahead and store
it so that it outputs in your build and
instantly is added depending
on what kind of asset it is.
Like a CSS file, that's a really cool one.
If you had just like a big CSS
file that was hosted somewhere but
you wanted to be injected
properly into your HTML,
with HTML webpack plugin,
perfect opportunity.
This is great.
I didn't even know that
people are adding this stuff.
Like if you have a good example and
you wanna, please, please add one.
afterOptimizeChunkAssets, so
boopathi is one of the maintainers
of the billy or the babel-minify-plugin?
And so he's written a bunch of webpack
plugins and so this is a good example of
how you can control or
see exactly what goes into every chunk.
And so he kind of writes this little code
example which let's you console log it and
identify.
Technically, we could even I think
that would yeah that's still webpack
four valid.
And so there's all sorts of hooks.
Now, we're slowly adding more
documentation as we go to, show you,
what are all these things?
And you might wonder, well,
our loaders added via plugin?
And yes, my friend, they are.
The LoaderOptionsPlugin,
how loaders are actually applied,
literally happens through
the loader plug in.
>> Sean Larkin: You can look at
how this even is tapped into.
We tap into the compilation
to get to it and
then we listen to the normal
module loader hook.
And then as this is happening
we apply any of the loaders.
We add dependencies for
them and they're traversed.
So to me this is fascinating.
And I know most of you guys are like,
Sean, I just wanna build web apps man.
Like, all right.
But this is beginnings of master.
If you really want to take ownership and
like the sky's the limit, really.